Hi friends
In this video let us discuss about passing function pointer
to a function and returning it
so we can pass the function pointer as a parameter to the function
The syntax to receive function pointers as a parameter is
inside function
parentheses write the return type of the function followed
by the function pointer name and the parameter information
each within separate parentheses
See some examples
See this
This is a function parameter to receive the function address
which has return type as void and it doesn't take
any argument also
Now see another example
This is a function parameter to receive the function address
which has integer as return type and it accepts two
integer variables
But it seems slightly complex. so we can use typedef
for this. First create a function pointer using typedef
And then use the typedef name to receive
the function pointer. now see an example here. Here
type fp is a function pointer which accepts two integer
variables and returns an integer. Now we can use fp
in function parentheses to receive function pointer like this
Now let us see an example programme
Here we have the main function, a function named sum
and the function mod and the function execute
So as we discussed we use the type def keyword
to create a function pointer. So fp is a
function pointer which accepts to integer variables
and returns an integer. In main
We print a + b equal to and call execute
function by passing 10 5 and sum. Recall that the name
of the function holds its address
So 1000 is assigned here. so we are passing the
address of function sum to the execute function
So control goes to execute function. There
We have parameters X Y and function pointer fp of
type fp.
So 10 5 and the address 1000 will be stored
in these. Next
We have result equal to (*fp)(x,y)
since fp contains the address 1000
So this line of code will call the function sum
There 10 and 5 will be stored in a and b
and a+b that is 10 + 5
equal to 15
is returned to the calling function execute and stored in
variable result and this result is returned to the calling
function main and will be printed on screen
So we get the output
a+b equal to 15
Next we have execute (10,5,mod). mod which
is the name of the function holds its base address
So we are passing the address of function mod to
the execute function
So control goes to execute function. There
We have parameters x y and function pointer fp of type fp
So 10, 5 and the address 2000 will be stored
in these. Next we have result = (*fp)(x,y)
since fp contains the address
So this line of code will be calling the function
mod
There 10 and 5 will be stored in a and b
and a mod b that is 10 mod 5
that is equal to zero is returned to the calling
function execute and it will be stored in the variable
result
And this result is returned to the calling function main
and it will be printed on the screen
So we get the output a mod b equal to
zero and finally the program returns
Zero
So that is how we pass function pointer to a
function. Now let us see how to return function pointer
from the function
The syntax for that is return type followed by *function_name
and parameters within separate parentheses
See an example here
Here the function name is fun
fun will not take any argument and it will return
a function pointer which takes no parameters and returns void
Let's take another example
Here also function name is fun and also
fun will not take any argument but will
return a function pointer of which accepts two integer as
a parameter and returns an integer. Note that the
actual function will not take any argument
The int int represents that the function address  to be
returned will take two integer argument as parameter
But this method is very much complicated so we can
avoid it by using typedef. See an example here
type fp is a function pointer which accepts two integer
parameters and returns an integer. Using type fp we can
easily declare function pointer like this
Now let us discuss an example programme
Here we have the main function, function sum
function mod and function get. So as we discussed
we can use typedef to create a function pointer fp which
takes two integers and returns an integer
So in main we have created fp of type fp
Now we call the function get by passing + . The function
get decides which function that is sum or mod to
be called and returns
it's address. We can see the return type is a
function pointer here. So control goes to get and + is
stored in c here.
So if condition here is satisfied so we return sum
that is address of the function sum. 1000 which is
returned as a function pointer to the calling function main
and we stored in Fp
Now we print a + b  equal to and call
the function sum using fp and passing 10 and 5
One thing that we have to understand is
(*fp)(10,5) is same as writing
fp(10,5)
So control goes to sum and 10 and 5 will
be stored in a and b respectively, and
a+b or 10 + 5 equal to 15 will be returned
to main and will be printed on screen. Again
We call the function get by passing % symbol
So control goes to get and % symbol
is stored in c. So if condition fails and
the else part is executed here which is returning mod. That
is address of function mod 2000
is returned as a function pointer to main and is
stored in fp
Now we print a mod b equal to and call
the function mod using fp and passing 10 and 5
So control goes to mod and 10 and 5 will
be stored in a and b respectively
And a mod b  or 10 % 5 equal to 0
will be returned to main and will be printed
on screen
So that is how we can return a function pointer
from a function
In the next video we will learn the applications of a
function pointer
So that's all and thank you for watching this video